
h1. Introduction

A reusable Django application to create a proxy object for your models. Intended to aggregate various content types into a model for reuse.

What django-proxy provides is an aggregation of different content types by denormalizing fields on various models into one database table (using signals to update/delete changes to those denormalized fields). This concept was initially used on my old blog (howiworkdaily.com) and a hacked version in the TWiD (thisweekindjango) "everything" feed. I like to say this is a poor man's "django-tumbleweed":http://github.com/mcroydon/django-tumbleweed, which defines itself as "A framework for creating tumblelog views of Django models indexed by Haystack" to provide similar functionality. What I like about django-proxy is that the denormalized data is available in the database and the relationship to the source object is available via Generic Relation, if needed.

Current implementation example:
    
<pre>
from django.db import models
from django.db.models import signals
    from django_proxy.signals import proxy_save, proxy_delete
    ...

    class Post(models.model):
    	STATUS_CHOICES = (
        	(1, _('Draft')),
        	(2, _('Public')),
    	)
        
        title = models.CharField(max_length=150)
        body = models.TextField()
        tag_data = TagField()
		status = models.IntegerField(_('status'), choices=STATUS_CHOICES, default=2)

    	class ProxyMeta:
        	title = 'title'
        	description = 'body'
			tags = 'tag_data'
			active = {'status':2}


    signals.post_save.connect(proxy_save, Post, True)
    signals.post_delete.connect(proxy_delete, Post)
</pre>

h2. Dependencies

Nothing external. No contrib apps. Just Django proper.

h2. TODO

* Allowing passing a callable for `active` business logic handling
* Decouple further via signals possibly, removing ProxyMeta from the design

h3. Examples

To see this project in use, take a peek at "Django-Mingus":http://github.com/montylounge/django-mingus and how combined with django-basic-apps it leverages the solution.

